wiki/RPC-Framework.md, before:

# RPC Framework

Elio's RPC framework provides high-performance remote procedure calls over TCP and Unix domain sockets. It features zero-copy serialization, out-of-order call support, and per-call timeouts.

## Features

- **Zero-copy serialization**: Binary format with direct memory access where possible
- **Out-of-order calls**: Multiple concurrent requests with response correlation by request ID
- **Per-call timeouts**: Individual timeout per RPC call
- **Nested types**: Support for complex nested structures
- **Variable-length data**: Strings, arrays, maps, and optionals
- **TCP and UDS**: Works over TCP sockets or Unix domain sockets
- **C++ templates**: No code generation needed - define schemas with C++ structs
- **Message integrity**: Optional CRC32 checksum for data verification
- **Zero-copy binary fields**: `buffer_ref` type for referencing external buffers without copying
- **Resource cleanup**: Cleanup callbacks for releasing resources after response is sent

## Quick Start

### Include the Header

```cpp
#include <elio/rpc/rpc.hpp>
```

### Define Message Types

```cpp
// Request message
struct GetUserRequest {
    int32_t user_id;
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(GetUserRequest, user_id)
};

// Response message
struct GetUserResponse {
    std::string name;
    int32_t age;
    std::vector<std::string> roles;
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(GetUserResponse, name, age, roles)
};
```

### Define RPC Methods

```cpp
// Method ID 1: GetUser
using GetUser = ELIO_RPC_METHOD(1, GetUserRequest, GetUserResponse);

// Method ID 2: CreateUser
using CreateUser = ELIO_RPC_METHOD(2, CreateUserRequest, CreateUserResponse);
```

### Server Implementation

```cpp
using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::rpc;

coro::task<void> run_server(uint16_t port) {
    auto& ctx = io::default_io_context();
    
    // Create listener
    auto listener = net::tcp_listener::bind(net::ipv4_address(port), ctx);
    if (!listener) {
        ELIO_LOG_ERROR("Failed to bind");
        co_return;
    }
    
    // Create server and register handlers
    tcp_rpc_server server;
    
    server.register_method<GetUser>([](const GetUserRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<GetUserResponse> {
        GetUserResponse resp;
        resp.name = "John Doe";
        resp.age = 30;
        resp.roles = {"admin", "user"};
        co_return resp;
    });
    
    // Start serving
    co_await server.serve(*listener);
}
```

### Client Implementation

```cpp
coro::task<void> run_client(const char* host, uint16_t port) {
    auto& ctx = io::default_io_context();
    
    // Connect to server
    auto client = co_await tcp_rpc_client::connect(ctx, host, port);
    if (!client) {
        ELIO_LOG_ERROR("Failed to connect");
        co_return;
    }
    
    // Make RPC call with 5 second timeout
    GetUserRequest req{42};
    auto result = co_await (*client)->call<GetUser>(req, std::chrono::seconds(5));
    
    if (result.ok()) {
        std::cout << "Name: " << result->name << std::endl;
        std::cout << "Age: " << result->age << std::endl;
    } else {
        std::cerr << "RPC failed: " << result.error_message() << std::endl;
    }
}
```

## Supported Types

### Primitive Types

All arithmetic types and enums are directly serializable:

```cpp
struct PrimitiveExample {
    int8_t a;
    int16_t b;
    int32_t c;
    int64_t d;
    uint8_t e;
    uint16_t f;
    uint32_t g;
    uint64_t h;
    float i;
    double j;
    bool k;
    MyEnum l;  // enums work too
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(PrimitiveExample, a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l)
};
```

### Strings

Both `std::string` and `std::string_view` are supported:

```cpp
struct StringExample {
    std::string name;
    std::string description;
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(StringExample, name, description)
};
```

### Arrays and Vectors

```cpp
struct ArrayExample {
    std::vector<int32_t> ids;
    std::vector<std::string> names;
    std::array<float, 3> position;  // fixed-size arrays
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(ArrayExample, ids, names, position)
};
```

### Maps

Both `std::map` and `std::unordered_map` are supported:

```cpp
struct MapExample {
    std::map<std::string, int32_t> scores;
    std::unordered_map<int32_t, std::string> id_to_name;
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(MapExample, scores, id_to_name)
};
```

### Optionals

```cpp
struct OptionalExample {
    std::optional<std::string> nickname;
    std::optional<int32_t> age;
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(OptionalExample, nickname, age)
};
```

### Nested Structures

```cpp
struct Address {
    std::string street;
    std::string city;
    std::string country;
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(Address, street, city, country)
};

struct Person {
    std::string name;
    Address address;                    // nested struct
    std::vector<Address> past_addresses; // array of nested structs
    std::map<std::string, Address> locations; // map with nested values
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(Person, name, address, past_addresses, locations)
};
```

### Byte Arrays (Blobs)

```cpp
struct BlobExample {
    std::vector<uint8_t> data;  // serialized as length-prefixed blob
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(BlobExample, data)
};
```

### Zero-Copy Binary References (buffer_ref)

For zero-copy handling of binary data from external sources (e.g., mmap'd files, pre-allocated buffers), use `buffer_ref`:

```cpp
struct FileDataResponse {
    std::string filename;
    buffer_ref content;  // references external buffer without copying
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(FileDataResponse, filename, content)
};

// Server handler with external buffer
server.register_method_with_cleanup<GetFileData>(
    [](const GetFileDataRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<std::pair<FileDataResponse, cleanup_callback_t>> {
        
        // Map file into memory
        void* mapped = mmap(nullptr, file_size, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, fd, 0);
        
        FileDataResponse resp;
        resp.filename = req.path;
        resp.content = buffer_ref(mapped, file_size);
        
        // Cleanup callback runs after response is sent
        auto cleanup = [mapped, file_size]() {
            munmap(mapped, file_size);
        };
        
        co_return std::make_pair(resp, cleanup);
    });
```

`buffer_ref` provides:
- Zero-copy serialization of external memory
- Construction from pointer+size, `std::span`, or `iovec`
- Conversion to `span`, `iovec`, or `string_view`

**Important**: The referenced data must remain valid until:
- For client: the RPC call completes
- For server: the cleanup callback is invoked

## Wire Protocol

### Frame Format

All messages use a binary wire format with little-endian byte order:

```
+----------+----------+-------+--------+------------+---------+
| magic(4) | req_id(4)| type(1)| flags(1)| method(4) | len(4)  |
+----------+----------+-------+--------+------------+---------+
| payload (len bytes)                                         |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| checksum(4) - optional, present if has_checksum flag set    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
```

- **magic** (4 bytes): `0x454C494F` ("ELIO")
- **request_id** (4 bytes): Correlation ID for matching responses
- **type** (1 byte): Message type (request=0, response=1, error=2, ping=3, pong=4, cancel=5)
- **flags** (1 byte): Message flags (has_timeout=0x01, has_checksum=0x02)
- **method_id** (4 bytes): Method being called (for requests)
- **payload_length** (4 bytes): Length of payload in bytes
- **checksum** (4 bytes, optional): CRC32 checksum of header + payload

Total header size: 18 bytes
Checksum trailer: 4 bytes (optional)

### Message Types

| Type | Value | Description |
|------|-------|-------------|
| request | 0 | RPC request from client |
| response | 1 | Successful response from server |
| error | 2 | Error response from server |
| ping | 3 | Keepalive ping |
| pong | 4 | Keepalive pong |
| cancel | 5 | Cancel pending request |

### Serialization Format

- **Integers**: Native little-endian encoding
- **Floats/Doubles**: IEEE 754 little-endian
- **Strings**: 4-byte length prefix + UTF-8 bytes
- **Arrays**: 4-byte count prefix + elements
- **Maps**: 4-byte count prefix + key-value pairs
- **Optionals**: 1-byte has_value flag + value (if present)
- **Structs**: Fields serialized in declaration order

## Error Handling

### Error Codes

```cpp
enum class rpc_error : uint32_t {
    success = 0,
    timeout = 1,
    connection_closed = 2,
    invalid_message = 3,
    method_not_found = 4,
    serialization_error = 5,
    internal_error = 6,
    cancelled = 7,
};
```

### Using rpc_result

```cpp
auto result = co_await client->call<MyMethod>(request);

// Check success
if (result.ok()) {
    // Access value
    auto& response = result.value();
    // Or use operator->
    std::cout << result->name << std::endl;
}

// Check for specific error
if (result.error() == rpc_error::timeout) {
    // Handle timeout
}

// Get error message
std::cerr << result.error_message() << std::endl;

// Use value_or for default
auto name = result.value_or(MyResponse{}).name;
```

## Advanced Usage

### Handler with Context

```cpp
server.register_method_with_context<GetUser>(
    [](const rpc_context& ctx, const GetUserRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<GetUserResponse> {
    // Access request context
    ELIO_LOG_DEBUG("Request ID: {}", ctx.request_id);
    if (ctx.has_timeout()) {
        ELIO_LOG_DEBUG("Timeout: {}ms", *ctx.timeout_ms);
    }
    
    GetUserResponse resp;
    // ... populate response
    co_return resp;
});
```

### Synchronous Handlers

For simple handlers that don't need async operations:

```cpp
server.register_sync_method<GetVersion>(
    [](const GetVersionRequest& req) -> GetVersionResponse {
    GetVersionResponse resp;
    resp.version = "1.0.0";
    return resp;
});
```

### Handlers with Cleanup Callbacks

When your response references external resources that must be released after the response is sent, use cleanup callbacks:

```cpp
// Handler returns std::pair<Response, cleanup_callback_t>
server.register_method_with_cleanup<ReadFile>(
    [](const ReadFileRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<std::pair<ReadFileResponse, cleanup_callback_t>> {
        
        // Acquire resource
        int fd = open(req.path.c_str(), O_RDONLY);
        void* data = mmap(nullptr, size, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, fd, 0);
        
        ReadFileResponse resp;
        resp.content = buffer_ref(data, size);
        
        // Cleanup runs AFTER response is fully sent
        auto cleanup = [data, size, fd]() {
            munmap(data, size);
            close(fd);
        };
        
        co_return std::make_pair(resp, std::move(cleanup));
    });

// With context access
server.register_method_with_context_and_cleanup<ReadFile>(
    [](const rpc_context& ctx, const ReadFileRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<std::pair<ReadFileResponse, cleanup_callback_t>> {
        // ... same pattern with ctx available
    });
```

### Message Integrity with CRC32 Checksum

Enable CRC32 checksums for message integrity verification:

```cpp
// Client: enable checksum for a specific call
GetUserRequest req{42};
auto [header, payload] = build_request(
    request_id, GetUser::id, req,
    std::chrono::milliseconds(5000),  // timeout
    true  // enable_checksum
);

// Or when building responses (server-side)
auto [header, payload] = build_response(request_id, response, true);

// Error responses with checksum
auto [header, payload] = build_error_response(
    request_id, rpc_error::internal_error, "message", true);
```

The checksum covers both header and payload. If verification fails on receive, the frame is rejected and `read_frame()` returns `std::nullopt`.

### One-way Messages

Send messages without waiting for response:

```cpp
co_await client->send_oneway<NotifyEvent>(event);
```

### Keepalive Ping

```cpp
bool alive = co_await client->ping(std::chrono::seconds(5));
if (!alive) {
    // Connection may be dead
}
```

### Unix Domain Sockets

```cpp
// Server
auto listener = net::uds_listener::bind(
    net::unix_address("/tmp/my_service.sock"), ctx);
uds_rpc_server server;
// ... register methods
co_await server.serve(*listener);

// Client
auto client = co_await uds_rpc_client::connect(
    ctx, "/tmp/my_service.sock");
```

### Abstract Sockets (Linux)

```cpp
// No filesystem path - automatically cleaned up
auto addr = net::unix_address::abstract("my_service");
auto listener = net::uds_listener::bind(addr, ctx);
```

## Performance Considerations

### Atomic Frame Writing

The RPC framework uses scatter-gather I/O (`writev`) to write frames atomically. This means the header, payload, and optional checksum are written in a single syscall, which:

- Reduces the number of syscalls (typically 1 instead of 2-3)
- Minimizes context switching under high concurrency
- Provides better behavior when multiple coroutines make parallel RPC calls with large payloads

This is handled automatically by `write_frame()` - no special configuration needed.

### Zero-Copy Deserialization

For read-only access, use `buffer_view` directly:

```cpp
// In buffer_view, strings are returned as string_view (no copy)
std::string_view name = view.read_string();

// Blobs are returned as span (no copy)
std::span<const uint8_t> data = view.read_blob();
```

### Discontinuous Buffers

For scatter-gather I/O, use `iovec_buffer`:

```cpp
iovec_buffer iov;
iov.add(header_data, header_size);
iov.add(payload_data, payload_size);

// Use with writev/sendmsg
struct msghdr msg = {};
msg.msg_iov = iov.iovecs();
msg.msg_iovlen = iov.count();
```

### CRC32 Checksum Utilities

The RPC framework uses the hash module for checksums. See [[Hash Functions]] for full documentation.

```cpp
#include <elio/hash/crc32.hpp>

// Single contiguous buffer
uint32_t checksum = elio::hash::crc32(data, length);

// From span
uint32_t checksum = elio::hash::crc32(std::span<const uint8_t>(data));

// Across multiple iovec buffers (scatter-gather)
struct iovec iov[2] = {...};
uint32_t checksum = elio::hash::crc32_iovec(iov, 2);

// Also available via elio::rpc namespace for convenience
uint32_t checksum = elio::rpc::crc32(data, length);
```

### Message Size Limits

Default maximum message size is 16MB. This is defined by `max_message_size` in `rpc_buffer.hpp`.

## Thread Safety

- **rpc_client**: Thread-safe for concurrent calls
- **rpc_server**: Thread-safe for serving multiple clients
- **Handlers**: Called from scheduler worker threads
- **Serialization**: Buffer types are not thread-safe (use separate instances per thread)

## Best Practices

1. **Keep messages small**: Large messages increase latency and memory usage
2. **Use appropriate timeouts**: Set reasonable timeouts for your use case
3. **Handle errors**: Always check `rpc_result::ok()` before accessing values
4. **Use unique method IDs**: Each method should have a unique ID across your service
5. **Version your protocol**: Consider adding version fields to messages for compatibility

Commit message:

Enrich wiki documentation and fix API discrepancies (#27)
- Add design rationale sections explaining technology choices
  (io_uring, Chase-Lev deque, MPSC inbox, header-only, signalfd)
- Fix incorrect APIs: remove non-existent condition_variable,
  correct scheduler stats accessors, fix affinity namespace
- Replace set_min_threads/set_max_threads with actual set_thread_count
- Add Virtual Stack and Frame Allocator documentation
- Add RPC Framework and Hash Functions examples
- Expand networking docs with IPv6, scatter-gather I/O, UDS
- Add implementation notes for hash hardware acceleration
- Update all code examples to match current API patterns

wiki/RPC-Framework.md, after:

# RPC Framework

Elio's RPC framework provides high-performance remote procedure calls over TCP and Unix domain sockets. It features zero-copy serialization, out-of-order call support, and per-call timeouts.

## Features

- **Zero-copy serialization**: Binary format with direct memory access where possible
- **Out-of-order calls**: Multiple concurrent requests with response correlation by request ID
- **Per-call timeouts**: Individual timeout per RPC call
- **Nested types**: Support for complex nested structures
- **Variable-length data**: Strings, arrays, maps, and optionals
- **TCP and UDS**: Works over TCP sockets or Unix domain sockets
- **C++ templates**: No code generation needed - define schemas with C++ structs
- **Message integrity**: Optional CRC32 checksum for data verification
- **Zero-copy binary fields**: `buffer_ref` type for referencing external buffers without copying
- **Resource cleanup**: Cleanup callbacks for releasing resources after response is sent

## Design Choices

### Why a custom wire format instead of protobuf/gRPC

The RPC framework uses a custom binary wire format to maintain zero external dependencies for the core protocol. The 18-byte fixed header enables fast parsing without schema negotiation -- the receiver always knows exactly how many bytes to read before it can dispatch a message. CRC32 checksums provide integrity verification without the overhead of a full serialization framework. This keeps the library header-only and avoids pulling in protobuf's code generator toolchain or gRPC's runtime.

### Why zero-copy with buffer_ref

Large payloads such as file contents or binary data can be sent without copying into a serialization buffer. The `buffer_ref` type holds a pointer and size, referencing memory that lives elsewhere (e.g., an mmap'd file or a pre-allocated buffer). Combined with `iovec_buffer`, this enables scatter-gather writes that combine the header and payload in a single `writev()` syscall, avoiding intermediate copies and reducing memory allocations on the send path.

### Why cleanup callbacks

When a response references data that must outlive the send operation (e.g., memory-mapped files, shared buffers), cleanup callbacks ensure that the referenced data is released only after the response is fully transmitted. Without this mechanism, the server would need to either copy all response data into owned buffers (defeating zero-copy) or risk use-after-free if the backing memory is released before the write completes.

## Quick Start

### Include the Header

```cpp
#include <elio/rpc/rpc.hpp>
```

### Define Message Types

```cpp
// Request message
struct GetUserRequest {
    int32_t user_id;
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(GetUserRequest, user_id)
};

// Response message
struct GetUserResponse {
    std::string name;
    int32_t age;
    std::vector<std::string> roles;
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(GetUserResponse, name, age, roles)
};
```

### Define RPC Methods

```cpp
// Method ID 1: GetUser
using GetUser = ELIO_RPC_METHOD(1, GetUserRequest, GetUserResponse);

// Method ID 2: CreateUser
using CreateUser = ELIO_RPC_METHOD(2, CreateUserRequest, CreateUserResponse);
```

### Server Implementation

```cpp
using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::rpc;

coro::task<void> run_server(uint16_t port) {
    auto& ctx = io::default_io_context();
    
    // Create listener
    auto listener = net::tcp_listener::bind(net::ipv4_address(port), ctx);
    if (!listener) {
        ELIO_LOG_ERROR("Failed to bind");
        co_return;
    }
    
    // Create server and register handlers
    tcp_rpc_server server;
    
    server.register_method<GetUser>([](const GetUserRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<GetUserResponse> {
        GetUserResponse resp;
        resp.name = "John Doe";
        resp.age = 30;
        resp.roles = {"admin", "user"};
        co_return resp;
    });
    
    // Start serving
    co_await server.serve(*listener);
}
```

### Client Implementation

```cpp
coro::task<void> run_client(const char* host, uint16_t port) {
    auto& ctx = io::default_io_context();
    
    // Connect to server
    auto client = co_await tcp_rpc_client::connect(ctx, host, port);
    if (!client) {
        ELIO_LOG_ERROR("Failed to connect");
        co_return;
    }
    
    // Make RPC call with 5 second timeout
    GetUserRequest req{42};
    auto result = co_await (*client)->call<GetUser>(req, std::chrono::seconds(5));
    
    if (result.ok()) {
        std::cout << "Name: " << result->name << std::endl;
        std::cout << "Age: " << result->age << std::endl;
    } else {
        std::cerr << "RPC failed: " << result.error_message() << std::endl;
    }
}
```

## Supported Types

### Primitive Types

All arithmetic types and enums are directly serializable:

```cpp
struct PrimitiveExample {
    int8_t a;
    int16_t b;
    int32_t c;
    int64_t d;
    uint8_t e;
    uint16_t f;
    uint32_t g;
    uint64_t h;
    float i;
    double j;
    bool k;
    MyEnum l;  // enums work too
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(PrimitiveExample, a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k, l)
};
```

### Strings

Both `std::string` and `std::string_view` are supported:

```cpp
struct StringExample {
    std::string name;
    std::string description;
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(StringExample, name, description)
};
```

### Arrays and Vectors

```cpp
struct ArrayExample {
    std::vector<int32_t> ids;
    std::vector<std::string> names;
    std::array<float, 3> position;  // fixed-size arrays
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(ArrayExample, ids, names, position)
};
```

### Maps

Both `std::map` and `std::unordered_map` are supported:

```cpp
struct MapExample {
    std::map<std::string, int32_t> scores;
    std::unordered_map<int32_t, std::string> id_to_name;
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(MapExample, scores, id_to_name)
};
```

### Optionals

```cpp
struct OptionalExample {
    std::optional<std::string> nickname;
    std::optional<int32_t> age;
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(OptionalExample, nickname, age)
};
```

### Nested Structures

```cpp
struct Address {
    std::string street;
    std::string city;
    std::string country;
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(Address, street, city, country)
};

struct Person {
    std::string name;
    Address address;                    // nested struct
    std::vector<Address> past_addresses; // array of nested structs
    std::map<std::string, Address> locations; // map with nested values
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(Person, name, address, past_addresses, locations)
};
```

### Byte Arrays (Blobs)

```cpp
struct BlobExample {
    std::vector<uint8_t> data;  // serialized as length-prefixed blob
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(BlobExample, data)
};
```

### Zero-Copy Binary References (buffer_ref)

For zero-copy handling of binary data from external sources (e.g., mmap'd files, pre-allocated buffers), use `buffer_ref`:

```cpp
struct FileDataResponse {
    std::string filename;
    buffer_ref content;  // references external buffer without copying
    
    ELIO_RPC_FIELDS(FileDataResponse, filename, content)
};

// Server handler with external buffer
server.register_method_with_cleanup<GetFileData>(
    [](const GetFileDataRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<std::pair<FileDataResponse, cleanup_callback_t>> {
        
        // Map file into memory
        void* mapped = mmap(nullptr, file_size, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, fd, 0);
        
        FileDataResponse resp;
        resp.filename = req.path;
        resp.content = buffer_ref(mapped, file_size);
        
        // Cleanup callback runs after response is sent
        auto cleanup = [mapped, file_size]() {
            munmap(mapped, file_size);
        };
        
        co_return std::make_pair(resp, cleanup);
    });
```

`buffer_ref` provides:
- Zero-copy serialization of external memory
- Construction from pointer+size, `std::span`, or `iovec`
- Conversion to `span`, `iovec`, or `string_view`

**Important**: The referenced data must remain valid until:
- For client: the RPC call completes
- For server: the cleanup callback is invoked

## Wire Protocol

### Frame Format

All messages use a binary wire format with little-endian byte order:

```
+----------+----------+-------+--------+------------+---------+
| magic(4) | req_id(4)| type(1)| flags(1)| method(4) | len(4)  |
+----------+----------+-------+--------+------------+---------+
| payload (len bytes)                                         |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| checksum(4) - optional, present if has_checksum flag set    |
+-------------------------------------------------------------+
```

- **magic** (4 bytes): `0x454C494F` ("ELIO")
- **request_id** (4 bytes): Correlation ID for matching responses
- **type** (1 byte): Message type (request=0, response=1, error=2, ping=3, pong=4, cancel=5)
- **flags** (1 byte): Message flags (has_timeout=0x01, has_checksum=0x02)
- **method_id** (4 bytes): Method being called (for requests)
- **payload_length** (4 bytes): Length of payload in bytes
- **checksum** (4 bytes, optional): CRC32 checksum of header + payload

Total header size: 18 bytes
Checksum trailer: 4 bytes (optional)

### Message Types

| Type | Value | Description |
|------|-------|-------------|
| request | 0 | RPC request from client |
| response | 1 | Successful response from server |
| error | 2 | Error response from server |
| ping | 3 | Keepalive ping |
| pong | 4 | Keepalive pong |
| cancel | 5 | Cancel pending request |

### Serialization Format

- **Integers**: Native little-endian encoding
- **Floats/Doubles**: IEEE 754 little-endian
- **Strings**: 4-byte length prefix + UTF-8 bytes
- **Arrays**: 4-byte count prefix + elements
- **Maps**: 4-byte count prefix + key-value pairs
- **Optionals**: 1-byte has_value flag + value (if present)
- **Structs**: Fields serialized in declaration order

## Error Handling

### Error Codes

```cpp
enum class rpc_error : uint32_t {
    success = 0,
    timeout = 1,
    connection_closed = 2,
    invalid_message = 3,
    method_not_found = 4,
    serialization_error = 5,
    internal_error = 6,
    cancelled = 7,
};
```

### Using rpc_result

```cpp
auto result = co_await client->call<MyMethod>(request);

// Check success
if (result.ok()) {
    // Access value
    auto& response = result.value();
    // Or use operator->
    std::cout << result->name << std::endl;
}

// Check for specific error
if (result.error() == rpc_error::timeout) {
    // Handle timeout
}

// Get error message
std::cerr << result.error_message() << std::endl;

// Use value_or for default
auto name = result.value_or(MyResponse{}).name;
```

## Advanced Usage

### Handler with Context

```cpp
server.register_method_with_context<GetUser>(
    [](const rpc_context& ctx, const GetUserRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<GetUserResponse> {
    // Access request context
    ELIO_LOG_DEBUG("Request ID: {}", ctx.request_id);
    if (ctx.has_timeout()) {
        ELIO_LOG_DEBUG("Timeout: {}ms", *ctx.timeout_ms);
    }
    
    GetUserResponse resp;
    // ... populate response
    co_return resp;
});
```

### Synchronous Handlers

For simple handlers that don't need async operations:

```cpp
server.register_sync_method<GetVersion>(
    [](const GetVersionRequest& req) -> GetVersionResponse {
    GetVersionResponse resp;
    resp.version = "1.0.0";
    return resp;
});
```

### Handlers with Cleanup Callbacks

When your response references external resources that must be released after the response is sent, use cleanup callbacks:

```cpp
// Handler returns std::pair<Response, cleanup_callback_t>
server.register_method_with_cleanup<ReadFile>(
    [](const ReadFileRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<std::pair<ReadFileResponse, cleanup_callback_t>> {
        
        // Acquire resource
        int fd = open(req.path.c_str(), O_RDONLY);
        void* data = mmap(nullptr, size, PROT_READ, MAP_PRIVATE, fd, 0);
        
        ReadFileResponse resp;
        resp.content = buffer_ref(data, size);
        
        // Cleanup runs AFTER response is fully sent
        auto cleanup = [data, size, fd]() {
            munmap(data, size);
            close(fd);
        };
        
        co_return std::make_pair(resp, std::move(cleanup));
    });

// With context access
server.register_method_with_context_and_cleanup<ReadFile>(
    [](const rpc_context& ctx, const ReadFileRequest& req) 
        -> coro::task<std::pair<ReadFileResponse, cleanup_callback_t>> {
        // ... same pattern with ctx available
    });
```

### Message Integrity with CRC32 Checksum

Enable CRC32 checksums for message integrity verification:

```cpp
// Client: enable checksum for a specific call
GetUserRequest req{42};
auto [header, payload] = build_request(
    request_id, GetUser::id, req,
    std::chrono::milliseconds(5000),  // timeout
    true  // enable_checksum
);

// Or when building responses (server-side)
auto [header, payload] = build_response(request_id, response, true);

// Error responses with checksum
auto [header, payload] = build_error_response(
    request_id, rpc_error::internal_error, "message", true);
```

The checksum covers both header and payload. If verification fails on receive, the frame is rejected and `read_frame()` returns `std::nullopt`.

### One-way Messages

Send messages without waiting for response:

```cpp
co_await client->send_oneway<NotifyEvent>(event);
```

### Keepalive Ping

```cpp
bool alive = co_await client->ping(std::chrono::seconds(5));
if (!alive) {
    // Connection may be dead
}
```

### Unix Domain Sockets

```cpp
// Server
auto listener = net::uds_listener::bind(
    net::unix_address("/tmp/my_service.sock"), ctx);
uds_rpc_server server;
// ... register methods
co_await server.serve(*listener);

// Client
auto client = co_await uds_rpc_client::connect(
    ctx, "/tmp/my_service.sock");
```

### Abstract Sockets (Linux)

```cpp
// No filesystem path - automatically cleaned up
auto addr = net::unix_address::abstract("my_service");
auto listener = net::uds_listener::bind(addr, ctx);
```

## Performance Considerations

### Atomic Frame Writing

The RPC framework uses scatter-gather I/O (`writev`) to write frames atomically. This means the header, payload, and optional checksum are written in a single syscall, which:

- Reduces the number of syscalls (typically 1 instead of 2-3)
- Minimizes context switching under high concurrency
- Provides better behavior when multiple coroutines make parallel RPC calls with large payloads

This is handled automatically by `write_frame()` - no special configuration needed.

### Zero-Copy Deserialization

For read-only access, use `buffer_view` directly:

```cpp
// In buffer_view, strings are returned as string_view (no copy)
std::string_view name = view.read_string();

// Blobs are returned as span (no copy)
std::span<const uint8_t> data = view.read_blob();
```

### Discontinuous Buffers

For scatter-gather I/O, use `iovec_buffer`:

```cpp
iovec_buffer iov;
iov.add(header_data, header_size);
iov.add(payload_data, payload_size);

// Use with writev/sendmsg
struct msghdr msg = {};
msg.msg_iov = iov.iovecs();
msg.msg_iovlen = iov.count();
```

### CRC32 Checksum Utilities

The RPC framework uses the hash module for checksums. See [[Hash Functions]] for full documentation.

```cpp
#include <elio/hash/crc32.hpp>

// Single contiguous buffer
uint32_t checksum = elio::hash::crc32(data, length);

// From span
uint32_t checksum = elio::hash::crc32(std::span<const uint8_t>(data));

// Across multiple iovec buffers (scatter-gather)
struct iovec iov[2] = {...};
uint32_t checksum = elio::hash::crc32_iovec(iov, 2);

// Also available via elio::rpc namespace for convenience
uint32_t checksum = elio::rpc::crc32(data, length);
```

### Message Size Limits

Default maximum message size is 16MB. This is defined by `max_message_size` in `rpc_buffer.hpp`.

## Thread Safety

- **rpc_client**: Thread-safe for concurrent calls
- **rpc_server**: Thread-safe for serving multiple clients
- **Handlers**: Called from scheduler worker threads
- **Serialization**: Buffer types are not thread-safe (use separate instances per thread)

## Best Practices

1. **Keep messages small**: Large messages increase latency and memory usage
2. **Use appropriate timeouts**: Set reasonable timeouts for your use case
3. **Handle errors**: Always check `rpc_result::ok()` before accessing values
4. **Use unique method IDs**: Each method should have a unique ID across your service
5. **Version your protocol**: Consider adding version fields to messages for compatibility
