wiki/WebSocket-SSE.md, before:

# WebSocket and Server-Sent Events

Elio provides full support for WebSocket (RFC 6455) and Server-Sent Events (SSE) for real-time bidirectional and unidirectional communication.

## WebSocket

WebSocket provides full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection.

### WebSocket Server

```cpp
#include <elio/elio.hpp>
#include <elio/http/websocket.hpp>

using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::http::websocket;

// WebSocket message handler
coro::task<void> echo_handler(ws_connection& conn) {
    while (conn.is_open()) {
        auto msg = co_await conn.receive();
        if (!msg) break;
        
        // Echo back the message
        if (msg->type == opcode::text) {
            co_await conn.send_text(msg->data);
        } else if (msg->type == opcode::binary) {
            co_await conn.send_binary(msg->data);
        }
    }
}

int main() {
    // Create WebSocket-enabled router
    ws_router router;
    
    // Regular HTTP routes
    router.get("/", [](context& ctx) -> coro::task<response> {
        co_return response::ok("Hello!");
    });
    
    // WebSocket routes
    server_config ws_config;
    ws_config.max_message_size = 1024 * 1024;  // 1MB
    
    router.websocket("/ws", echo_handler, ws_config);
    
    // Create and start server
    ws_server srv(std::move(router));
    
    runtime::scheduler sched(4);
    sched.start();
    
    auto task = srv.listen(net::ipv4_address(8080));
    sched.spawn(task.release());
    
    // Run until stopped...
    sched.shutdown();
    return 0;
}
```

### WebSocket Client

```cpp
#include <elio/elio.hpp>
#include <elio/http/websocket.hpp>

using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::http::websocket;

coro::task<void> connect_example() {
    // Create client
    client_config config;
    config.subprotocols = {"chat", "json"};  // Optional subprotocols

    ws_client client(config);
    
    // Connect to server
    if (!co_await client.connect("ws://localhost:8080/ws")) {
        ELIO_LOG_ERROR("Failed to connect");
        co_return;
    }
    
    ELIO_LOG_INFO("Connected! Subprotocol: {}", client.subprotocol());
    
    // Send messages
    co_await client.send_text("Hello, server!");
    co_await client.send_binary("\x01\x02\x03");
    
    // Receive messages
    while (client.is_open()) {
        auto msg = co_await client.receive();
        if (!msg) break;
        
        if (msg->type == opcode::text) {
            ELIO_LOG_INFO("Received: {}", msg->data);
        }
    }
    
    // Close connection
    co_await client.close(close_code::normal, "Done");
}
```

### WebSocket Frame Types

| Opcode | Name | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| 0x0 | continuation | Continuation of fragmented message |
| 0x1 | text | UTF-8 text data |
| 0x2 | binary | Binary data |
| 0x8 | close | Connection close |
| 0x9 | ping | Ping (keep-alive) |
| 0xA | pong | Pong (response to ping) |

### Close Codes

| Code | Name | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| 1000 | normal | Normal closure |
| 1001 | going_away | Endpoint going away |
| 1002 | protocol_error | Protocol error |
| 1003 | unsupported | Unsupported data type |
| 1008 | policy_violation | Policy violation |
| 1009 | too_large | Message too big |
| 1011 | unexpected | Unexpected condition |

### Secure WebSocket (WSS)

For secure connections, use `wss://` URLs and configure TLS:

```cpp
// Server with TLS
auto tls_ctx = tls::tls_context::make_server("cert.pem", "key.pem");
auto task = srv.listen_tls(net::ipv4_address(8443), 
                          io::default_io_context(), sched, tls_ctx);

// Client with TLS
ws_client client(ctx);
client.tls_context().use_default_verify_paths();
co_await client.connect("wss://example.com/ws");
```

## Server-Sent Events (SSE)

SSE provides server-to-client event streaming over HTTP.

### SSE Server

```cpp
#include <elio/elio.hpp>
#include <elio/http/sse.hpp>

using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::http::sse;

// Event stream handler
coro::task<void> event_stream(sse_connection& conn) {
    int counter = 0;
    
    // Send retry interval
    co_await conn.send_retry(3000);  // 3 seconds
    
    while (conn.is_active()) {
        ++counter;
        
        // Send a simple event
        co_await conn.send_data("Counter: " + std::to_string(counter));
        
        // Send a typed event
        event evt = event::full(
            std::to_string(counter),  // id
            "update",                  // type
            R"({"count":)" + std::to_string(counter) + "}"
        );
        co_await conn.send(evt);
        
        // Wait before next event
        co_await time::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(1));
    }
}
```

### SSE Client

```cpp
#include <elio/elio.hpp>
#include <elio/http/sse.hpp>

using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::http::sse;

coro::task<void> listen_events() {
    auto& ctx = io::default_io_context();
    
    // Configure client
    client_config config;
    config.auto_reconnect = true;
    config.default_retry_ms = 3000;
    
    sse_client client(ctx, config);
    
    // Connect
    if (!co_await client.connect("http://localhost:8080/events")) {
        ELIO_LOG_ERROR("Failed to connect");
        co_return;
    }
    
    // Receive events
    while (client.is_connected()) {
        auto evt = co_await client.receive();
        if (!evt) break;
        
        ELIO_LOG_INFO("Event: type={} id={} data={}", 
                      evt->type.empty() ? "message" : evt->type,
                      evt->id,
                      evt->data);
    }
}
```

### SSE Event Format

SSE events are formatted as text with specific fields:

```
id: event-123
event: notification
retry: 3000
data: Hello, World!
data: This is line 2

```

- `id:` - Event ID for reconnection tracking
- `event:` - Event type (default: "message")
- `retry:` - Reconnection interval in milliseconds
- `data:` - Event data (can span multiple lines)
- Empty line marks end of event

### SSE vs WebSocket

| Feature | SSE | WebSocket |
|---------|-----|-----------|
| Direction | Server → Client only | Bidirectional |
| Protocol | HTTP | Custom over TCP |
| Reconnection | Automatic | Manual |
| Browser support | EventSource API | WebSocket API |
| Complexity | Simple | More complex |
| Best for | Notifications, feeds | Chat, games, real-time |

### When to Use SSE

- Real-time notifications
- Live feeds (news, stocks)
- Progress updates
- Log streaming
- Any server-push scenario without client messages

### When to Use WebSocket

- Chat applications
- Real-time games
- Collaborative editing
- Any scenario requiring bidirectional communication

## Browser Integration

### WebSocket (JavaScript)

```javascript
const ws = new WebSocket('ws://localhost:8080/ws');

ws.onopen = () => {
    console.log('Connected');
    ws.send('Hello, server!');
};

ws.onmessage = (event) => {
    console.log('Received:', event.data);
};

ws.onclose = (event) => {
    console.log('Disconnected:', event.code);
};

// Send messages
ws.send('Hello');
ws.send(new Blob([1, 2, 3]));

// Close
ws.close(1000, 'Done');
```

### SSE (JavaScript)

```javascript
const es = new EventSource('/events');

es.onmessage = (event) => {
    console.log('Message:', event.data);
};

es.addEventListener('notification', (event) => {
    console.log('Notification:', event.data);
    console.log('ID:', event.lastEventId);
});

es.onerror = (error) => {
    console.error('Error:', error);
    // EventSource will auto-reconnect
};

// Close
es.close();
```

## Examples

Complete examples are available:

- `examples/websocket_server.cpp` - WebSocket server with echo and chat
- `examples/websocket_client.cpp` - WebSocket client demo
- `examples/sse_server.cpp` - SSE event streaming server
- `examples/sse_client.cpp` - SSE event receiver

## Next Steps

- See [[API Reference]] for detailed API documentation
- See [[Networking]] for TCP and HTTP documentation
- See [[Examples]] for more code examples

Commit message:

Enrich wiki documentation and fix API discrepancies
- Add design rationale sections explaining technology choices
  (io_uring, Chase-Lev deque, MPSC inbox, header-only, signalfd)
- Fix incorrect APIs: remove non-existent condition_variable,
  correct scheduler stats accessors, fix affinity namespace
- Replace set_min_threads/set_max_threads with actual set_thread_count
- Add Virtual Stack and Frame Allocator documentation
- Add RPC Framework and Hash Functions examples
- Expand networking docs with IPv6, scatter-gather I/O, UDS
- Add implementation notes for hash hardware acceleration
- Update all code examples to match current API patterns

wiki/WebSocket-SSE.md, after:

# WebSocket and Server-Sent Events

Elio provides full support for WebSocket (RFC 6455) and Server-Sent Events (SSE) for real-time bidirectional and unidirectional communication.

## Design Notes

The **WebSocket** implementation follows RFC 6455, including frame masking for all client-to-server messages as required by the specification. Masking prevents cache poisoning attacks on intermediary proxies that might misinterpret WebSocket frames as HTTP. The server-side does not mask frames, as the RFC only mandates client-to-server masking.

**Server-Sent Events (SSE)** provides a simpler alternative to WebSocket for server-to-client streaming. SSE operates over standard HTTP, requires no protocol upgrade, and benefits from automatic reconnection built into the browser EventSource API. The tradeoff is that SSE is unidirectional (server to client only), but for many use cases -- notifications, live feeds, progress updates -- this is sufficient and avoids the complexity of a bidirectional protocol.

## WebSocket

WebSocket provides full-duplex communication channels over a single TCP connection.

### WebSocket Server

```cpp
#include <elio/elio.hpp>
#include <elio/http/websocket.hpp>

using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::http::websocket;

// WebSocket message handler
coro::task<void> echo_handler(ws_connection& conn) {
    while (conn.is_open()) {
        auto msg = co_await conn.receive();
        if (!msg) break;
        
        // Echo back the message
        if (msg->type == opcode::text) {
            co_await conn.send_text(msg->data);
        } else if (msg->type == opcode::binary) {
            co_await conn.send_binary(msg->data);
        }
    }
}

int main() {
    // Create WebSocket-enabled router
    ws_router router;
    
    // Regular HTTP routes
    router.get("/", [](context& ctx) -> coro::task<response> {
        co_return response::ok("Hello!");
    });
    
    // WebSocket routes
    server_config ws_config;
    ws_config.max_message_size = 1024 * 1024;  // 1MB
    
    router.websocket("/ws", echo_handler, ws_config);
    
    // Create and start server
    ws_server srv(std::move(router));
    
    runtime::scheduler sched(4);
    sched.start();
    
    auto task = srv.listen(net::ipv4_address(8080));
    sched.spawn(task.release());
    
    // Run until stopped...
    sched.shutdown();
    return 0;
}
```

### WebSocket Client

```cpp
#include <elio/elio.hpp>
#include <elio/http/websocket.hpp>

using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::http::websocket;

coro::task<void> connect_example() {
    // Create client
    client_config config;
    config.subprotocols = {"chat", "json"};  // Optional subprotocols

    ws_client client(config);
    
    // Connect to server
    if (!co_await client.connect("ws://localhost:8080/ws")) {
        ELIO_LOG_ERROR("Failed to connect");
        co_return;
    }
    
    ELIO_LOG_INFO("Connected! Subprotocol: {}", client.subprotocol());
    
    // Send messages
    co_await client.send_text("Hello, server!");
    co_await client.send_binary("\x01\x02\x03");
    
    // Receive messages
    while (client.is_open()) {
        auto msg = co_await client.receive();
        if (!msg) break;
        
        if (msg->type == opcode::text) {
            ELIO_LOG_INFO("Received: {}", msg->data);
        }
    }
    
    // Close connection
    co_await client.close(close_code::normal, "Done");
}
```

### WebSocket Frame Types

| Opcode | Name | Description |
|--------|------|-------------|
| 0x0 | continuation | Continuation of fragmented message |
| 0x1 | text | UTF-8 text data |
| 0x2 | binary | Binary data |
| 0x8 | close | Connection close |
| 0x9 | ping | Ping (keep-alive) |
| 0xA | pong | Pong (response to ping) |

### Close Codes

| Code | Name | Description |
|------|------|-------------|
| 1000 | normal | Normal closure |
| 1001 | going_away | Endpoint going away |
| 1002 | protocol_error | Protocol error |
| 1003 | unsupported | Unsupported data type |
| 1008 | policy_violation | Policy violation |
| 1009 | too_large | Message too big |
| 1011 | unexpected | Unexpected condition |

### Secure WebSocket (WSS)

For secure connections, use `wss://` URLs and configure TLS:

```cpp
// Server with TLS
auto tls_ctx = tls::tls_context::make_server("cert.pem", "key.pem");
auto task = srv.listen_tls(net::ipv4_address(8443), 
                          io::default_io_context(), sched, tls_ctx);

// Client with TLS
ws_client client(ctx);
client.tls_context().use_default_verify_paths();
co_await client.connect("wss://example.com/ws");
```

## Server-Sent Events (SSE)

SSE provides server-to-client event streaming over HTTP.

### SSE Server

```cpp
#include <elio/elio.hpp>
#include <elio/http/sse.hpp>

using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::http::sse;

// Event stream handler
coro::task<void> event_stream(sse_connection& conn) {
    int counter = 0;
    
    // Send retry interval
    co_await conn.send_retry(3000);  // 3 seconds
    
    while (conn.is_active()) {
        ++counter;
        
        // Send a simple event
        co_await conn.send_data("Counter: " + std::to_string(counter));
        
        // Send a typed event
        event evt = event::full(
            std::to_string(counter),  // id
            "update",                  // type
            R"({"count":)" + std::to_string(counter) + "}"
        );
        co_await conn.send(evt);
        
        // Wait before next event
        co_await time::sleep_for(std::chrono::seconds(1));
    }
}
```

### SSE Client

```cpp
#include <elio/elio.hpp>
#include <elio/http/sse.hpp>

using namespace elio;
using namespace elio::http::sse;

coro::task<void> listen_events() {
    auto& ctx = io::default_io_context();
    
    // Configure client
    client_config config;
    config.auto_reconnect = true;
    config.default_retry_ms = 3000;
    
    sse_client client(ctx, config);
    
    // Connect
    if (!co_await client.connect("http://localhost:8080/events")) {
        ELIO_LOG_ERROR("Failed to connect");
        co_return;
    }
    
    // Receive events
    while (client.is_connected()) {
        auto evt = co_await client.receive();
        if (!evt) break;
        
        ELIO_LOG_INFO("Event: type={} id={} data={}", 
                      evt->type.empty() ? "message" : evt->type,
                      evt->id,
                      evt->data);
    }
}
```

### SSE Event Format

SSE events are formatted as text with specific fields:

```
id: event-123
event: notification
retry: 3000
data: Hello, World!
data: This is line 2

```

- `id:` - Event ID for reconnection tracking
- `event:` - Event type (default: "message")
- `retry:` - Reconnection interval in milliseconds
- `data:` - Event data (can span multiple lines)
- Empty line marks end of event

### SSE vs WebSocket

| Feature | SSE | WebSocket |
|---------|-----|-----------|
| Direction | Server → Client only | Bidirectional |
| Protocol | HTTP | Custom over TCP |
| Reconnection | Automatic | Manual |
| Browser support | EventSource API | WebSocket API |
| Complexity | Simple | More complex |
| Best for | Notifications, feeds | Chat, games, real-time |

### When to Use SSE

- Real-time notifications
- Live feeds (news, stocks)
- Progress updates
- Log streaming
- Any server-push scenario without client messages

### When to Use WebSocket

- Chat applications
- Real-time games
- Collaborative editing
- Any scenario requiring bidirectional communication

## Browser Integration

### WebSocket (JavaScript)

```javascript
const ws = new WebSocket('ws://localhost:8080/ws');

ws.onopen = () => {
    console.log('Connected');
    ws.send('Hello, server!');
};

ws.onmessage = (event) => {
    console.log('Received:', event.data);
};

ws.onclose = (event) => {
    console.log('Disconnected:', event.code);
};

// Send messages
ws.send('Hello');
ws.send(new Blob([1, 2, 3]));

// Close
ws.close(1000, 'Done');
```

### SSE (JavaScript)

```javascript
const es = new EventSource('/events');

es.onmessage = (event) => {
    console.log('Message:', event.data);
};

es.addEventListener('notification', (event) => {
    console.log('Notification:', event.data);
    console.log('ID:', event.lastEventId);
});

es.onerror = (error) => {
    console.error('Error:', error);
    // EventSource will auto-reconnect
};

// Close
es.close();
```

## Examples

Complete examples are available:

- `examples/websocket_server.cpp` - WebSocket server with echo and chat
- `examples/websocket_client.cpp` - WebSocket client demo
- `examples/sse_server.cpp` - SSE event streaming server
- `examples/sse_client.cpp` - SSE event receiver

## Next Steps

- See [[API Reference]] for detailed API documentation
- See [[Networking]] for TCP and HTTP documentation
- See [[Examples]] for more code examples
